This is a bunch of Ruby scripts, why do you need to build anything?
To make life easier for people who are scared off by the words,
"you have to install Ruby first," we generate a windows executable.
This file tells you how to build that binary.

PreConditions

To build the binary, you need to have Ruby and ocra. Below are the
steps to get them setup.

1. Install Ruby  1.9.3
   - there is already a doc here for how to do that
   - the part about installing the pdf-reader gem can be skipped
     since the turn results are no longer in PDF files.

2. Install the ocra gem
   - Just like the pdf-reader gem, you do this from the 'RubyShell'
     (a dos command window with a few environment variables and such set)
   - gem install ocra
   - Just for reference, here is the list of gems I have installed.
     Most of them come pre-installed. I think the rest came as a result
     of installing the pdf-reader and/or the ocra gems.

     afm (0.2.2)
     Ascii85 (1.0.2)
     bigdecimal (1.1.0)
     hashery (2.1.1)
     io-console (0.3)
     json (1.5.5)
     minitest (2.5.1)
     ocra (1.3.5)
     pdf-reader (1.3.3)
     rake (0.9.2.2)
     rdoc (3.9.5)
     ruby-rc4 (0.1.5)
     ttfunk (1.4.0)

Building

Building is quick and easy. Just run the d2.bat file. 
It will generate a file called amap.exe. Rename that
to parserGUI.exe or whatever you want and you are done.


Historical Information

At one time I was generating two binaries. In addition 
to the GUI, I also generated one for the command line parser.
That binary was for the people who were using the Thudargh
Excel Spreadsheet Map. However, since his tool now includes
its own turn parser, there is no need to keep supplying this one.

Anyway, whenever I was ready to do a release, I would run 
d1.bat and d2.bat in the RubyShell. Then I would run dist.sh
in my cygwin shell. All that last one does is copy everything
into one place for easy upload to Bintray.

The upload to Bintray is no longer needed as UncleMike is 
now serving the parserGUI.exe from the Alamaze server.
